Update deploy ml guide (#3400)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/how-tos/deploy-ml.md

{{< alert title="In this page" color="tip" >}}

1. [Create a dataset and label data](#create-a-dataset-and-label-data)
1. [Train a machine learning (ML) model](#train-a-machine-learning-ml-model)
1. [Test your ML model](#test-your-ml-model)
1. [Deploy your ML model](#deploy-an-ml-model)

{{< /alert >}}

## Prerequisites

{{% expand "A running machine connected to the Viam app. Click to see instructions." %}}

{{% snippet "setup.md" %}}

{{% /expand%}}

{{% expand "A configured camera. Click to see instructions." %}}

Navigate to the **CONFIGURE** tab of your machine's page in [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
Click the **+** icon next to your machine part in the left-hand menu and select **Component**.
Then [find and add a camera model](/components/camera/) that supports your camera.

If you are not sure what to use, start with a [webcam](/components/camera/webcam/) which supports most USB cameras and inbuilt laptop webcams.

{{% /expand%}}

{{% expand "No computer or webcam?" %}}

> No problem.

Reviewer: I personally like this personability :)

You don't need to buy or own any hardware to complete this guide.

Use [Try Viam](https://app.viam.com/try) to borrow a rover free of cost online.
The rover already has `viam-server` installed and is configured with some components to test with, including a webcam.

Once you have borrowed a rover, go to the **CONFIGURE** tab of the machine, find the cameras and click on the **Test** panel at the bottom of each camera's configuration panel to test the camera stream.
You should have a front-facing camera and an overhead view of your rover.

> Now you know what the rover can _perceive_.

Author: It's humanizing the rover. The rover doesn't actually perceive.

> Now you know what the rover can _perceive_.

Reviewer: Yes but I find the italics confusing. Italics make me think this is an important Viam term that will come up later, or something.

> Now you know what the rover can _perceive_.

Author: I did remove them before merging

> If your rover is facing a wall, find the base configuration panel and click on its **Test** panel.
> Use the controls to drive your rover to a different location.

Reviewer: Need to tell them to turn on picture-in-picture (either from config or control).

What's wrong with it facing a wall? It's technically always going to be facing a wall :D I think this is confusing because we don't tell them what the goal is.

```suggestion
To change what the front-facing camera is pointed at, find the **cam** camera panel on the **CONTROL** tab and click **Toggle picture-in-picture** so you can continue to view the camera stream.
Then, find the **viam_base** panel and drive the rover around.
```

> Now that you have seen that the cameras on your Try Viam rover work, begin by [Creating a dataset and labeling data](#create-a-dataset-and-label-data).

Reviewer: [opt]
```suggestion
Now that you have seen that the cameras on your Try Viam rover work, begin by [Creating a dataset and labeling data](#create-a-dataset-and-label-data).
You can drive the rover around as you capture data to get a variety of images from different angles.
```

{{< alert title="Tip" color="tip" >}}
Be aware that if you are running out of time during your rental, you can [extend your rover rental](/appendix/try-viam/reserve-a-rover/#extend-your-reservation) as long as there are no other reservations.
{{< /alert >}}

{{% /expand%}}

## Create a dataset and label data

Start by assembling the dataset to train your machine learning model on.

{{% expand "Just testing and want a dataset to get started with? Click here." %}}

> 1. Download our [shapes dataset](https://storage.googleapis.com/docs-blog/dataset-shapes.zip).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Download our shapes dataset](https://storage.googleapis.com/docs-blog/dataset-shapes.zip).
```
[opt] I think some folks might not expect the link to be a download--they might expect it to take them to a page where they then get to opt into downloading. Maybe this will help them not be surprised by unintended downloads.

1. Unzip the download.
1. Open a terminal and go to the dataset folder.

> 1. In it you will find a python script to upload the data to the Viam app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In it you will find a Python script to upload the data to the Viam app.
```
[nit]

> 1. Open the script and fill in the environment variables at the top of the file.

Reviewer: Is it fair to call these env variables when the person is actually hard-coding them into the script file itself? I don't have a sense of how much this matters/whether it is bad for security practices in this particular instance

> 1. Open the script and fill in the environment variables at the top of the file.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Open the script and fill in the constants at the top of the file.
```

1. Run the script to upload the data into a dataset in Viam app:

   ```sh {class="command-line" data-prompt="$" }
   python3 upload_data.py
   ```

1. Continue to [Train a machine learning model](#train-a-machine-learning-ml-model).

{{% /expand%}}

{{< alert title="Tip" color="tip" >}}
For best results when training machine learning models:

- Provide at least 10 images of the same object, taken from different angles, and repeat this approach for each object you want your machine to be able to identify.
- Include some images that do not contain any of the objects you wish to identify, but do not tag these images.

> - If your machine operates in various lighting conditions, such as changing sunlight, include images of each object from varying lighting conditions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you want your machine to operate successfully in various lighting conditions, such as changing sunlight, include images of each object from varying lighting conditions.
```
[opt]

{{< /alert >}}

## Prerequisites

{{% expand "A running machine connected to the Viam app. Click to see instructions." %}}

{{% snippet "setup.md" %}}

{{% /expand%}}

{{% expand "A configured camera. Click to see instructions." %}}

Navigate to the **CONFIGURE** tab of your machine's page in [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
Click the **+** icon next to your machine part in the left-hand menu and select **Component**.
Then [find and add a camera model](/components/camera/) that supports your camera.

If you are not sure what to use, start with a [webcam](/components/camera/webcam/) which supports most USB cameras and inbuilt laptop webcams.

{{% /expand%}}

{{% expand "No computer or webcam?" %}}
No problem.
You don't need to buy or own any hardware to complete this guide.

Use [Try Viam](https://app.viam.com/try) to borrow a rover free of cost online.
The rover already has `viam-server` installed and is configured with some components, including a webcam.

Once you have borrowed a rover, go to its **CONTROL** tab where you can view camera streams and also drive the rover.
You should have a front-facing camera and an overhead view of your rover.

> Now you know what the rover can _perceive_.

Author: ```suggestion
Now you know what the rover can perceive.
```

You can use tags to create classification models for images.
For example, if you would like to create a model that identifies an image of a star in a set of images, tag each image containing a star with a `star` tag.
You also need images without the star tag or with another tag like `notstar`.

> If you add a `notstar` tag.

Reviewer: incomplete sentence. Not sure if you want to keep the whole original sentence or what is meant to be here.

You can use tags to create classification models for images.
For example, if you would like to create a model that identifies an image of a star in a set of images, tag each image containing a star with a `star` tag.
You also need images without the star tag or with another tag like `notstar`.

> If you add a `notstar` tag.

Author: ```suggestion
```

        print("See: https://app.viam.com/data/datasets")
        return 1

    print("Adding data to dataset...")
    await data_client.add_binary_data_to_dataset_by_ids(
        binary_ids=my_binary_ids,
        dataset_id=dataset_id
    )
    print("Added files to dataset.")
    print("See dataset: https://app.viam.com/data/datasets?id=" + dataset_id)

    viam_client.close()

if __name__ == '__main__':
    asyncio.run(main())
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

{{% /expand%}}

To remove an image from a dataset click on the **x** button next to the dataset name.
Alternatively, you can use the [`viam data dataset remove` command](/cli/#data) to remove an image or group of images matching a specific filter using the Viam CLI.

{{% /tablestep %}}
{{< /table >}}

{{% alert title="Tip" color="tip" %}}
To keep your data organized, you can configure a tag in your data management service config panel.
This tag will be applied to all data synced from that machine in the future.
If you apply the same tag to all data gathered from all machines that you want to use in your dataset, you can filter by that tag in the Viam app **DATA** tab, or when querying data.

> This is not required, since you can use other filters like time or machine ID in the **DATA** tab to isolate your data.

Reviewer: This can be pretty helpful--is there a reason we want to remove it completely?

        dataset_id=dataset_id
    )
    print("Added files to dataset.")
    print("See dataset: https://app.viam.com/data/datasets?id=" + dataset_id)

    viam_client.close()

if __name__ == '__main__':
    asyncio.run(main())
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

{{% /expand%}}

To remove an image from a dataset click on the **x** button next to the dataset name.

{{% /tablestep %}}
{{< /table >}}

## Train a machine learning (ML) model

{{< table >}}
{{% tablestep %}}
**1. Train an ML model**

In the Viam app, navigate to your list of [**DATASETS**](https://app.viam.com/data/datasets) and select the one you want to train on.

Click **Train model** and follow the prompts.

Select to train a new model or update an existing model.
You can train or update using **Built-in training** or using a [training script](/services/ml/training-scripts/) from the Viam Registry.

Click **Next steps**.

{{<imgproc src="/tutorials/data-management/shapes-dataset.png" resize="1200x" declaredimensions=true style="max-width:500px" alt="The shapes dataset." class="imgzoom fill aligncenter">}}

{{% /tablestep %}}
{{% tablestep %}}
**2. Select the details for your ML model**

> 1. Enter a name or use the suggested name for your new model.

Author: ```suggestion
- Enter a name or use the suggested name for your new model.
```

> 1. For built-in training scripts, select a **Model Type**.

Author: ```suggestion
- For built-in training scripts, select a **Model Type**.
```

   Depending on the training script you've chose, you may have a number of these options:
   - **Single Label Classification**: The resulting model predicts one of the selected labels or `UNKNOWN` per image.
     Select this if you only have one label on each image. Ensure that the dataset you are training on also contains unlabeled images.
   - **Multi Label Classification**: The resulting model predicts one or more of the selected labels per image.
   - **Object Detection**: The resulting model predicts either no detected objects or any number of object labels alongside their locations per image.

> 1. For built-in classification training, select the tags you want to train your model on from the **Labels** section. Unselected tags will be ignored, and will not be part of the resulting model.
> 1. Click **Train model**.

Author: ```suggestion
- For built-in classification training, select the tags you want to train your model on from the **Labels** section. Unselected tags will be ignored, and will not be part of the resulting model.
- Click **Train model**.
```

> You can choose between
> 
> - training a new model or updating a model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can choose to train a new model or update an existing model.
```
This unordered list is wonky

Author: ```suggestion
Select to train a new model or update an existing model.
```

> - You can use a **Built-in training** script or a [training script](/services/ml/training-scripts/).

Reviewer: This is confusing. A built-in training script is still a training script, so putting it this way makes it not either-or.

Also I don't think "built-in training" should be bold.

Should it be this?

```suggestion
You can train or update using a [built-in training script](/services/ml/training-scripts/) or your own [custom training script](/how-tos/create-custom-training-scripts/).
```

Author: ```suggestion
You can train or update using **Built-in training** or using a [training script](/services/ml/training-scripts/) from the Viam Registry.
```

Click **Next steps**.

{{<imgproc src="/tutorials/data-management/shapes-dataset.png" resize="1200x" declaredimensions=true style="max-width:500px" alt="The shapes dataset." class="imgzoom fill aligncenter">}}

{{% /tablestep %}}
{{% tablestep %}}
**2. Select the details for your ML model**

> 1. Enter a name or use the suggested name for your new model.

Reviewer: [out-of-diff opt] I don't love the look of numbered steps inside a numbered step. Consider just splitting into paragraphs within this step.

> 1. For built-in training scripts, select a **Model Type**. Depending on the training script you've chose, you may have a number of these options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. For built-in training scripts, select a **Model Type**.
   Depending on the training script you've chose, you may have a number of these options:
```
[nit]

   - **Single Label Classification**: The resulting model predicts one of the selected labels or `UNKNOWN` per image.
     Select this if you only have one label on each image. Ensure that the dataset you are training on also contains unlabeled images.
   - **Multi Label Classification**: The resulting model predicts one or more of the selected labels per image.
   - **Object Detection**: The resulting model predicts either no detected objects or any number of object labels alongside their locations per image.
1. For built-in classification training, select the tags you want to train your model on from the **Labels** section. Unselected tags will be ignored, and will not be part of the resulting model.

> 1. Click **Train model**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Train model**.
```

{{% /tablestep %}}
{{< /table >}}

## Test your ML model

{{<gif webm_src="/services/vision/mug-classifier.webm" mp4_src="/services/vision/mug-classifier.mp4" alt="A classification model run against an image containing a mug." max-width="250px" class="alignright">}}

> Once your model has finished training, you can test it with images in the cloud Viam cloud:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once your model has finished training, you can test it with images in the Viam app:
```

1. Navigate to the [**DATA** tab](/services/data/view/) and click on the **Images** subtab.
2. Click on an image to open the side menu, and select the **Actions** tab.
3. In the **Run model** section, select your model and specify a confidence threshold.
4. Click **Run model**

If the results exceed the confidence threshold, the **Run model** section shows a label and the responding confidence threshold.

## Deploy an ML model

> Add the [ML model](/services/ml/) service and deploy your model to your machine to be able to use it to understand your machine's surroundings.

Reviewer: I think this sentence is more confusing than the original. Also the link doesn't help because it just takes them to ML in general.

```suggestion
To use an ML model on your machine, you need to deploy it to your machine using a compatible ML model service.
```

{{<imgproc src="/services/icons/vision.svg" class="fill alignleft" style="max-width: 150px" declaredimensions=true alt="Configure a service">}}
**2. Configure an <code>mlmodel</code> vision service**

The vision service takes the ML model and applies it to the stream of images from your camera.

Add the `vision / ML model` service to your machine.
Then, from the **Select model** dropdown, select the name of the ML model service you configured in the last step (for example, `mlmodel-1`).

Click **Save** to save your changes.

{{% /tablestep %}}
{{% tablestep link="/services/vision/mlmodel/#test-your-detector-or-classifier" %}}
{{<imgproc src="/services/ml/deploy.svg" class="fill alignleft" style="max-width: 150px" declaredimensions=true alt="Deploy your model">}}

> **3. Use your detector or classifier**

Reviewer: Did it use to be the case that only classifiers were supported on the test panel, but now it can do both?

Author: this guide used to be specific to classifiers. I think what you said may have also been true but I don't remember the details

You can test your detector by clicking on the **Test** area of the vision service's configuration panel or from the [**CONTROL** tab](/fleet/control/).

The camera stream will show classification or detections when it identifies something, depending on your model.

> If you are using a Viam Rover, use the `viam_base` panel to move your rover, then click on the vision panel to check for detections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using a Viam rover, use the `viam_base` panel to move your rover, then click on the vision panel to check for classifications or detections.
```
[nit]

{{% card link="/appendix/apis/data-client/" %}}
{{< /cards >}}

> See the following tutorials for examples of using machine learning models to mache your machine interact intelligently based on what it detects:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the following tutorials for examples of using machine learning models to make your machine interact intelligently based on what it detects:
```
